People who like cartoons must be thankful for DVDs, because that wonderful technology opened up the floodgates for fans for every kind of animation. Whether you like classic Looney Tunes, hippy-dippy sci-fi parables or Asian tentacle porn, it's all there for you to find and enjoy. It's only been in the last 20 years or so, however, that American TV networks have clued into the idea that many adults like cartoons that have content specifically aimed at adults, even though some cartoons did well in prime-time even fifty years ago or so. Now, with DVD, you can not only watch entire seasons at a shot, you can also see the shows in their unadulterated glory.Which brings us to the Comedy Central series Drawn Together. I've been a fan of this show for a while, partly because of the writing and partly because of the cheerful way in which it steamrolls political correctness and good taste. If South Park is the Mount Everest of crude, crass animation, then Drawn Together is K2; it doesn't stand as tall, but it's a tougher climb. The truth of this was brought home upon watching the second season of the show on DVD. Much to my surprise, watching the DVD turned out to be a different experience than watching it in first run.Part of this is due to one of the DVD set's selling points: it's unexpurgated. I didn't think this would make much of a difference, as it's generally pretty clear what's been cut. As it turns out, there was a lot cut out of the show, and not just language: genitalia, violence, enough racist abuse to make the KKK turn red under their sheets, in a vast array of configurations and a whole lot of other content that probably produces instant pucker in the unfortunate souls who work in Comedy Central's Standards and Practices department. Now, I'm not one for censorship, but the additional material works against the show to a certain degree. What's there is still funny in multiple senses, from satire to slapstick, but actually being able to hit the money words (and shots) dilutes the humor a bit.As far as taste goes, DT is not a show to start novices on. If adult animation is still a new concept for you, and you think The Simpsons is bleeding-edge in the sometimes fluid space between being socially acceptable and being a pariah, then DT may cause seizures. For people who like edgy animation, this will be just the ticket. The voiceover artists and writers take their material seriously, and they're willing to go wherever the jokes take them (the season finale has a running gag with historical dates and the episodes connected to them that manages to be both subtle and sick).In terms of presentation, the DT set is relatively bare-bones. The whole season of 15 episodes is crammed onto two discs, leaving just enough room for a handful of interviews with the voiceover artists (minus Adam Carolla, who has plenty to do outside the show) and a karaoke singalong. The visual quality is pretty sharp, and the sound quality is good, but this isn't the kind of material you use to do any THX certifications with, so it's not like you'd expect much. 

Still, it's the episodes that matter, and for you sick little monkeys out there who like this kind of thing, Drawn Together season 2 is a worthwhile expenditure. Just don't leave it out where Grandma or the kids might get a hold of it. Either you'll scar them for life (maybe shuffling Granny into an early grave), or you'll never get it back. Very adult humor, cutting in sarcasm and dry take on reality shows in the least. I already had seasons 1 and 3 so I'm pretty happy that I finally got season 2. If you haven't seen the show before, it's insanely offensive and hilarious. So you have been warned. Enjoy! Fans of the previous season of Drawn Together will both be overjoyed to see this DVD set & a little disappointed. Those who aren't into extremely crude humor won't be as entertained, though.

This season picks up with the previous's cliffhanger of the plane crash, then quickly tries to top the previous season. It pokes fun at the shows & characters that it's based on as well as making jabs at it's critics. The DVD set is uncensored, which is nice but some of the jokes lose a bit of their punch. Half of the fun of watching it on TV is that things are blurred & curse words are bleeped. Even so, fans of this series will be glad to own this set. Anyone else? Better off renting it. Ok, I've watched at least 60 percent of Drawn together episodes out there. Yet i don't ever recall laughing past a grin. The characters are boxed into stereotypes leaving absolutely nothing funny to them but the obvious and predictable jokes . It has never displayed the wit of most animated shows out there. I cant see this show lasting many seasons more with the slight premise of the show. Tired stuff dawg! 