When I landed on the top of a lamppost in the London dusk it was peeing
with rain. This was just my luck. I had taken the form of a blackbird, a sprightly
fellow with a bright yellow beak and jet-black plumage. Within seconds I was as
bedraggled a fowl as ever hunched its wings in Hampstead. Flicking my head from
side to side, I spied a large beech tree. Leaves moldered at its foot—it had already
been stripped clean by the November winds—but the thick sprouting of its
branches offered some protection from the wet. I flew over to it, passing above a
lone car that purred its way along the wide suburban street. Behind high walls and
the evergreen foliage of their gardens, the ugly white facades of several sizeable villas
shone through the dark like the faces of the dead.
Well, perhaps it was my mood that made it seem like that. Five things were
bothering me. For a start the dull ache that comes with every physical manifestation
was already beginning. I could feel it in my feathers. Changing form would
keep the pain at bay for a time, but might also draw attention to me at a critical
stage of the operation. Until I was sure of my surroundings, a bird I had to remain.
The second thing was the weather. Enough said.
Third, I'd forgotten the limitations of material bodies. I had an itch just above
my beak, and kept futilely trying to scratch it with a wing.
Fourth, that kid. I had a lot of questions about him. Who was he? Why did he
have a death wish? How would I get even with him before he died for subjecting
me to this assignment? News travels fast, and I was bound to take some abuse for
scurrying around on behalf of a scrap like him.
Fifth... the Amulet. By all accounts it was a potent charm. What the kid
thought he was going to do with it when he got it beat me. He wouldn't have a
clue. Maybe he'd just wear it as some tragic fashion accessory. Maybe nicking amulets
was the latest craze, the magician's version of pinching hubcaps. Even so, I had
to get it first, and this would not necessarily be easy, even for me.
I closed my blackbird's eyes and opened my inner ones, one after the other,
each on a different plane.[1] I looked back and forth around me, hopping up and
down the branch to get the optimal view. No fewer than three villas along the
street had magical protection, which showed how wealthy an area we were in. I
didn't inspect the two farther off up the street; it was the one across from them,
beyond the streetlight, that interested me. The residence of Simon Lovelace, magician.