He was almost at the door; he could see the stairs beyond that led up to his
master.
And the door slammed shut.
The boy wrenched at the doorknob, beat at the wood, hammered, called to his
master in a choking sob, but all to no avail. Something was whispering in his ear
and he could not hear the words. In mortal panic, he kicked at the door, succeeding
only in jarring his toe through his small black boot.
He turned then and faced the empty room.
Small rustlings sounded all about him, delicate taps and little flitterings, as if
the wonderful carpet, the books, the shelves, even the ceiling were being brushed against by
invisible, moving things. One of the light shades above his head swung slightly in a
nonexistent breeze.
Through his tears, through his terror, the boy found words to speak.
"Stop!" he shouted. "Begone!"
The rustling, tapping, and flittering stopped dead. The light shade's swing
slowed, diminished, and came to a halt.
The room was very still.
Gulping for breath, the boy waited with his back against the door, watching
the room. Not a sound came.
Then he remembered the story of spectacles that he was still holding in his hand. Out
of the clinging fog of fear, he recalled that his master had told him to put them on
before returning. Perhaps if he did so, the door would open and he would be allowed
to climb the stairs to safety.
With trembling fingers he raised the spectacles and put them on.
And saw the truth about the study.
A hundred small demons filled every inch of the space in front of him. They
were stacked one on top of the other all over the room, like seeds in a melon or
nuts in a bag, with feet squishing faces and elbows jabbed into bellies. So tightly
were they clustered that the very carpet was blocked out. Leering obscenely, they
squatted on the desk, hung from the lights and bookcases, and hovered in midair.
Some balanced on the protruding noses of others or were suspended from their
limbs. A few had wonderful bodies with heads the size of oranges; several displayed the
reverse. There were tails and wings and horns and warts and extra hands, mouths,
feet, and eyes. There were too many scales and too much hair and other things in
impossible places. Some had beaks, others had suckers, most had teeth. They were
every conceivable color, often in inappropriate combinations. And they were all
doing their best to keep very, very still so as to convince the boy that nobody was
there. They were trying extremely hard to remain frozen, despite the repressed
shaking and trembling of tails and wings and the uncontrollable twitching of their
extremely mobile mouths.
But at the very moment the boy put on the spectacles and saw them, they realized
that he could see them too.
Then, with a cry of glee, they leaped at him.
The boy screamed, fell back against the door and sideways onto the floor. He
raised his hands to protect himself, dashing the spectacles from his nose. Blindly he
rolled over onto his face and curled himself up into a ball, smothered by the terrible
noise of wings and scales and small sharp claws on top, around, beside him.