I caught sight of them at the next booth, watching from behind a candyfloss
stand. They were moving in a huddle—maybe five or six of them, I couldn't be
sure. What did they want? A mugging? If so, why pick me out? There were dozens
of better, fatter, richer candidates here. To test this I cozied up to a very small,
wealthy-looking tourist with a giant camera and thick spectacles. If I'd wanted to
mug someone, he'd have been top of my list. But when I left him and went on a
loop through the crowd, the children followed right along too.
Weird. And annoying. I didn't want to make a change and fly off; I was too
weary. All I wanted was to be left in peace. I still had many hours to go before the
dawn.
I speeded up; the children did so too. Long before we'd done three circuits of
the square, I'd had enough. A couple of policemen had watched us beetling around
and they were likely to halt us soon, if only to stop themselves getting dizzy. It was
time to go. Whatever the kids were after, I did not want any more attention drawn
to me.
There was a subway close by. I hotfooted it down the steps, ignored the entrance
to the Underground, and came up again on the other side of the road, opposite
the central square. The kids had vanished—maybe they were in the subway.
Now was my chance. I slipped round a street corner, along past a bookshop, and
ducked down an alley. I waited a little there, in the shadows among the dumper
bins.
A couple of cars drove past the end of the alley. No one came after me.
I allowed myself a brief smile. I thought I'd lost them.
I was wrong.
The Egyptian boy wandered off along the alley, made a couple of right-angle
turns and came out in one of the many roads that radiate from Trafalgar Square. I
was revising my plans as I went.
Forget the square. Too many irritating children around. But perhaps if I found a
shelter close by, the amulet's pulse would still be hard for the spheres to locate. I
could hole up behind some bins until the morning came. It was the only option. I
was too weary to take to the skies again.
And I wanted to do some thinking.
The old pain had started up again, throbbing in my chest, stomach, bones. It
wasn't healthy to be encased in a body for so long. How humans can stand it without
going completely mad, I'll never know