A pretty hellish brew all round. Still, what did it matter? At dawn I
would hand over the Amulet and escape this sorry mess for good.
Except for my business with the boy. He'd pay for it, big time. You didn't reduce
Bartimaeus of Uruk to dossing in a West End back alley and expect to get
away with it. First I'd find out his name, then—
Wait...
Footsteps in the alley... Several pairs of boots approaching.
Perhaps it was just coincidence. London's a city. People use it. People use alleys.
Whoever was coming was probably just taking a shortcut home.
Down the very alley that I happened to be hiding in.
I don't believe in coincidences.
I shrank back into the doorway's shallow well of darkness and cast a Concealment
upon myself. A layer of tightly laced black threads covered me where I sat in
the shadows, blending me into the murk. I waited.
The boots drew nearer. Who might it be? A Night Police patrol? A phalanx of
magicians sent by Simon Lovelace? Perhaps the orbs had spotted me, after all.
It was neither police nor magicians. It was the children from Trafalgar Square.
Five boys, with the girl at their head. They were dawdling along, looking casually
from side to side. I relaxed a little. I was well hidden, and even if I hadn't been,
there was nothing to fear from them now that we were out of the public gaze.
Admittedly, the boys were big and loutish looking, but they were still just boys,
dressed in jeans and leathers. The girl wore a black leather jacket and trousers that
flared wildly from the knees down. There was enough spare material there to make
a second pair for a midget. Down the alley they came, scuffling through the litter. I
realized suddenly how unnaturally silent they were.
In doubt, I checked the other planes again. On each, everything was just as it
should be. Six children.
Hidden behind my barrier, I waited for them to go past.
The girl was in the lead. She drew level with me.
Safe behind my barrier, I yawned.
One of the boys tapped the girl's shoulder.
"It's there," he said, pointing.
"Get it," the girl said.
Before I had a chance to get over my surprise, three of the burliest boys leaped
into the doorway and crashed down upon me. As they touched the Concealment
wisps, the threads tore and dissolved away into nothingness. For an instant I was
overwhelmed by a tidal wave of distressed leather, cheap aftershave, and body
odor. I was sat upon, punched, and smacked about the head. I was bundled unceremoniously
to my feet.
Then I reasserted myself. I am Bartimaeus, after all.
The alley was illuminated by a brief discharge of heat and light. The bricks of
the doorway looked as if they had been seared on a griddle.
To my surprise the boys were still holding on. Two of them gripped my wrists,
while the third had both arms tight round my waist.
I repeated the effect with greater emphasis. Car alarms in the next street
started ringing. This time, I confess, I expected to be left in the charcoally grip of three charred corpses.