The girl grinned coldly. "Would a wonderful magician do so well against your wickedness?"
She had a point there. For a start, a magician wouldn't have wanted to come
within a dog's bark of me without being protected up to the hilt with charms and
pentacles. Next he would have needed the help of imps to find me under my Concealment;
and, finally, he would have had to conjure up a fairly heavyweight djinni
to subdue me. If he dared. But this girl and her boyfriends had done it all on their
own, without seeming particularly fussed.
I should have let fly a full-strength Detonation or something, but I was too
tired for anything fancy. I fell back on empty bluster.
I laughed eerily. "Hah! I'm toying with you."
"That's empty bluster."
I tried another tack. "Despite myself," I said, "I confess I'm intrigued. I applaud
your bravery in daring to accost me. If you tell me your name and purpose, I will
spare you. In fact, I might well be able to help you. I have many wonderful abilities at my
command."
To my disappointment, the girl clamped her hands over her ears. "Don't give
me your weasel words, demon!" she said. "I won't be tempted."
"Surely you do not want my enmity," I went on, soothingly. "My friendship is
greatly to be preferred."
"I don't care about either," the girl said, lowering her hands. "I want whatever it
is you have round your neck."
"You can't have it. But you can have a fight if you like. Apart from the damage
it'll do you, I'll make sure I let off a signal that'll bring the Night Police down on us
like gorgons from hell. You don't want their attention, do you?"
That made her flinch a bit. I built on my advantage.
"Don't be naïve," I said. "Think about it. You're trying to rob me of a very
powerful object. It belongs to a terrible but wonderful magician. If you so much as touch it, he'll
find you and nail your skin to his door."
Whether it was this threat or the accusation of naïveté that got to her, the girl
was rattled. I could tell by the direction of her pout.
Experimentally I shifted one elbow a little. The corresponding boy grunted and
tightened his grip on my arm.
A siren sounded a few roads away. The girl and her bodyguards looked uneasily
down the alley into the darkness. A few drops of rain began to fall from the hidden
sky.
"Enough of this," the girl said. She stepped toward me.
"Careful," I said.
She stretched out a hand. As she did so, I opened my mouth, very, very slowly.
Then she reached for the chain round my neck.
In an instant I was a Nile crocodile with jaws agape. I snapped down at her fingers.
The girl shrieked and jerked her arm backward faster than I would have believed
possible. My snaggleteeth clashed just short of her retreating fingernails. I
snapped at her again, thrashing from side to side in my captors' grasp. The girl
squawked, slipped, and fell into a pile of litter, knocking over one of her two
guards. My sudden transformation took my three boys by surprise, particularly the
one who was clutching me around my wide scaly midriff. His grip had loosened,
but the other two were still hanging on. My long hard tail scythed left, then right,
making satisfyingly crisp contact with two thick skulls. Their brains, if they had
any, were nicely addled; their jaws slackened and so did their grasps.
One of the girl's two guards had been only momentarily shocked. He recovered
himself, reached inside his jacket, emerged with something shiny in his hand.
As he threw it, I changed again.
The quick shift from big (the croc) to small (a fox) was nicely judged, if I say
so myself. The six hands that had been struggling to cope with large-scale scales
suddenly found themselves clenching thin air as a tiny red bundle of fur and whirling
claws dropped through their flailing fingers to the floor. At the same moment a
missile of flashing silver passed through the point where the croc's throat had recently
been and embedded itself in the metal door beyond.