Arthur Underwood was a middle-ranking magician who worked for the Ministry
of Internal Affairs. A solitary man, of a somewhat cantankerous nature, he lived
with his wife, Martha, in a tall Georgian house in Highgate.
Mr. Underwood had never had an apprentice, and nor did he want one. He was
quite happy working on his own. But he knew that sooner or later, like all other
magicians, he would have to take his turn and accept a child into his house.
Sure enough, the inevitable happened: one day a letter arrived from the Ministry
of Employment, containing the dreaded request. With grim resignation, Mr.
Underwood fulfilled his duty. On the appointed afternoon, he traveled to the ministry
to collect his nameless charge.
He ascended the marbled steps between two granite pillars and entered the
echoing foyer. It was a vast featureless space; office workers passed quietly back
and forth between wooden doors on either side, their shoes making respectful pattering
noises on the floor. Across the hall, two statues of past Employment ministers
had been built on a heroic scale, and sandwiched between them was a desk,
piled high with papers. Mr. Underwood approached. It was only when he actually
reached the desk that he was able to glimpse, behind the bristling rampart of bulging
files, the face of a small, smiling clerk.
"Hello, sir," said the clerk.
"Junior Minister Underwood. I'm here to collect my new apprentice."
"Ah—yes, sir. I was expecting you. If you'll just sign a few documents..." The
clerk rummaged in a nearby stack. "Won't take a minute. Then you can pick him
up from the day room."
" 'Him'? It's a boy, then?"
"A boy, five years old. Very bright, if the tests are anything to go by. Obviously
a little upset at the moment..." The clerk located a wodge of papers and withdrew a
pen from behind his ear. "If you could initial each page and sign on the dotted
lines..."
Mr. Underwood flourished the pen. "His parents—they've left, I take it?"
"Yes, sir. They couldn't get away fast enough. The usual sort: take the money
and run, if you get my meaning, sir. Barely stopped to say good-bye to him."
"And all the normal safety procedures—?"
"His birth records have been removed and destroyed, sir, and he has been
strictly instructed to forget his birth name and not reveal it to anyone. He is now
officially unformed. You can start with him from scratch."
"Very well." With a sigh, Mr. Underwood completed his last spidery signature
and passed the documents back. "If that's all, I suppose I had better pick him up."
He passed down a series of silent corridors and through a heavy, paneled door
to a brightly painted room that had been filled with toys for the entertainment of
unhappy children. There, between a grimacing rocking horse and a plastic wizard
doll wearing a comedy conical hat, he found a small pale-faced boy. It had been
crying in the recent past, but had now fortunately desisted. Two red-rimmed eyes
looked up at him blankly. Mr. Underwood cleared his throat.
"I'm Underwood, your master. Your true life begins now. Come with me."
The child gave a loud sniff. Mr. Underwood noticed its chin wobbling dangerously.
With some distaste, he took the boy by the hand, pulled it to its feet, and led
it out down echoing corridors to his waiting car.