The magician Underwood's house was the kind of building that presented a
slender, simple, dignified countenance to the street, but which extended back for a
remarkable distance in a confusion of stairs, corridors, and slightly varying levels.
There were five main floors altogether: a cellar, filled with wine racks, mushroom
boxes, and cases of drying fruit; the ground floor, containing reception room, dining
hall, kitchen, and conservatory; two upper floors mainly consisting of bathrooms,
bedrooms, and workrooms; and, at the very top, an attic. It was here that Nathaniel
slept, under a steeply sloping ceiling of whitewashed rafters.
Each morning, at dawn, he was woken by the fluting clamor of pigeons on the
roof above. A small skylight was set in the ceiling. Through it, if he stood on a
chair, he could see out over the gray, rain-washed London horizon. The house stood
on a hill and the view was good; on clear days he could see the Crystal Palace radio
mast far away on the other side of the city.
His bedroom was furnished with a cheap plywood wardrobe, a small chest of
drawers, a desk and chair, and a bedside bookcase. Every week Mrs. Underwood
placed a new bunch of garden flowers in a vase on the desk.
From that first miserable day, the magician's wife had taken Nathaniel under
her wing. She liked the boy and was kind to him. In the privacy of the house, she
often addressed the apprentice by his birth name, despite the stern displeasure of
her husband.
"We shouldn't even know the brat's name," he told her. "It's forbidden! He
could be compromised. When he is twelve, at his coming of age, he will be given
his new name, by which he will be known, as magician and man, for the rest of his
life. In the meantime, it is quite wrong—"
"Who's going to notice?" she protested. "No one. It gives the poor lad comfort."
She was the only person to use his name. His tutors called him Underwood, after
his master. His master himself just addressed him as "boy."
In return for her affection, Nathaniel rewarded Mrs. Underwood with open
devotion. He hung on her every word, and followed her directions in everything.
At the end of his first week at the house, she brought a present to his room.
"This is for you," she said. "It's a bit old and dreary, but I thought you might
like it."
It was a painting of boats sailing up a creek, surrounded by mudflats and low
countryside. The varnish was so dark with age that the details could hardly be made
out, but Nathaniel loved it instantly. He watched Mrs. Underwood hang it on the
wall above his desk.
"You're to be a magician, Nathaniel," she said, "and that is the greatest privilege
that any boy or girl could have. Your parents have made the ultimate sacrifice by
giving you up for this noble destiny. No, don't cry, dear. So in turn you must be
strong, strive as hard as you can, and learn everything your tutors ask of you. By doing
that you will honor both your parents and yourself. Come over to the window.
Stand on that chair. Now—look over there; do you see that little tower in the distance?"
"That one?"
"No, that's an office block, dear. The little brown one, over on the left? That's
it. That's the Houses of Parliament, my dear, where all the finest magicians go, to
rule Britain and our empire. Mr. Underwood goes there all the time. And if you
work hard and do everything your master tells you, one day you will go there too,
and I will be as proud of you as can be."
"Yes, Mrs. Underwood." He stared at the tower until his eyes ached, fixing its
position firmly in his mind. To go to Parliament... One day it would be so. He
would indeed work hard and make her proud.
With time, and the constant ministrations of Mrs. Underwood, Nathaniel's
homesickness began to fade. Memory of his distant parents dimmed and the pain
inside him grew ever less, until he had almost forgotten its existence.