This call was a ritual stemming from one morning, when, on his way downstairs
to the bathroom, Nathaniel had charged out of his bedroom in a befuddled
state, made precise contact between foot and mug, and sent a tidal wave of hot tea
crashing against the landing wall. The stain was still visible years later, like the imprint
of a splash of blood. Fortunately his master had not discovered this disaster.
He never ascended to the attic.
After washing in the bathroom on the level below, Nathaniel would dress himself
in shirt, gray trousers, long gray socks, smart black shoes and, if it was winter
and the house was cold, a thick Irish jumper that Mrs. Underwood had bought for
him. He would brush his hair carefully in front of a tall mirror in the bathroom,
running his eyes over the thin, neat figure with the pale face gazing back at him.
Then he descended by the back stairs to the kitchen, carrying his schoolwork.
While Mrs. Underwood fixed the cornflakes and toast, he would try to finish the
homework left over from the night before. Mrs. Underwood frequently did her
best to help him.
"Azerbaijan? The capital's Baku, I think."
"Bakoo?"
"Yes. Look in your atlas. What are you learning that for?"
"Mr. Purcell says I have to master the Middle East this Week—learn the countries
and stuff."
"Don't look so down. Toast's ready. Well, it is important you learn all that
'stuff'—you have to know the background before you can get to the interesting
bits."
"But it's so boring!"
"That's all you know. I've been to Azerbaijan. Baku's a bit of a dump, but it is
an important center for researching afrits."
"What are they?"
"Demons of fire. The second most powerful form of spirit. The fiery element is
very strong in the mountains of Azerbaijan. That's where the Zoroastrian faith began
too; they venerate the divine fire found in all living things. If you're looking for
the chocolate spread, it's behind the cereal."
"Did you see a djinni when you were there, Mrs. Underwood?"
"You don't need to go to Baku to find a djinni, Nathaniel—and don't speak
with your mouth full. You're spraying crumbs all over my tablecloth. No, djinn will
come to you, especially if you're here in London."
"When will I see a freet?"
"An afrit. Not for a long time, if you know what's good for you. Now, finish up
quickly—Mr. Purcell will be waiting."
After breakfast, Nathaniel would gather his school books and head upstairs to
the first-floor workroom where Mr. Purcell would indeed be waiting for him. His
teacher was a young man with thinning blond hair, which he frequently smoothed
down in a vain effort to hide his scalp. He wore a gray suit that was slightly too big
for him and an alternating sequence of horrible ties. His first name was Walter.
Many things made him nervous, and speaking to Mr. Underwood (which he had to,
on occasion) made him downright twitchy. As a result of his nerves, he took his
frustrations out on Nathaniel. He was too honest a man to be really brutal with the
boy, who was a competent worker; instead he tended to snap tetchily at his mistakes,
yipping like a small dog.
Nathaniel learned no magic with Mr. Purcell. His teacher did not know any. Instead
he had to apply himself to other subjects, primarily mathematics, modern
languages (French, Czech), geography, and history. Politics was also important.
"Now then, young Underwood," Mr. Purcell would say. "What is the chief
purpose of our noble government?" Nathaniel looked blank. "Come on! Come on!"
"To rule us, sir?"
"To protect us. Do not forget that our country is at war. Prague still commands
the plains east of Bohemia, and we are struggling to keep her armies out of Italy.
These are dangerous times. Agitators and spies are loose in London. If the Empire is
to be kept whole, a strong government must be in place, and strong means magicians.
Imagine the country without them! It would be unthinkable: commoners
would be in charge! We would slip into chaos, and invasion would quickly follow.
All that stands between us and anarchy is our leaders. This is what you should aspire
to, boy. To be a part of the Government and rule honorably. Remember that."
"Yes, sir."
"Honor is the most important quality for a magician," Mr. Purcell went on. "He
or she has great power, and must use it with discretion. In the past, rogue magicians
have attempted to overthrow the State: they have always been defeated. Why? Because
true magicians fight with virtue and justice on their side."
"Mr. Purcell, are you a magician?"
His teacher smoothed back his hair and sighed. "No, Underwood. I was... not
selected. But I still serve as best I can. Now—"
"Then you're a commoner?"
Mr. Purcell slapped the table with his palm. "If you please! I'm asking the questions!
Take up your protractor. We shall move on to geometry."
Shortly after his eighth birthday, Nathaniel's curriculum was expanded. He began
to study chemistry and physics on the one hand, and the history of religion on
the other. He also began several other key languages, including Latin, Aramaic, and
Hebrew.
These activities occupied Nathaniel from nine in the morning until lunch at
one, at which time he would descend to the kitchen to devour in solitude the
sandwiches that Mrs. Underwood had left out for him under moist Saran Wrap.
In the afternoons the timetable was varied. On two days of the week, Nathaniel
continued work with Mr. Purcell. On two other afternoons he was escorted
down the street to the public baths, where a burly man with a mustache shaped
like a mudguard supervised a punishing regimen. Along with a bedraggled posse of
other small children, Nathaniel had to swim countless lengths using every conceivable
style of stroke. He was always too shy and exhausted to talk much to his fellow
swimmers, and they, sensing him for what he was, kept their distance from
him. Already, by the age of eight, he was avoided and left alone.
The other two afternoon activities were music (Thursday) and drawing (Saturday).
Nathaniel dreaded music even more than swimming. His tutor, Mr. Sindra,
was an obese, short-tempered man whose chins quivered as he walked. Nathaniel
kept a close eye on those chins: if their trembling increased it was a sure sign of a
coming rage. Rages came with depressing regularity. Mr. Sindra could barely contain
his fury whenever Nathaniel rushed his scales, misread his notes, or fluffed his
sight-reading, and these things happened often.
"How," Mr. Sindra yelled, "do you propose to summon a lamia with plucking
like this? How? The mind boggles! Give me that!" He snatched the lyre from Nathaniel's
hand and held it against his ample chest. Then, his eyes closed in rapture,
he began to play. A sweet melody filled the workroom. The short, fat fingers
moved like dancing sausages across the strings; outside, birds stopped in the tree to
listen. Nathaniel's eyes filled with tears. Memories from the distant past drifted
ghostlike before him....
"Now you!" The music broke off with a jarring screech. The lyre was thrust
back at him. Nathaniel began to pluck at the strings. His fingers tripped and stumbled;
outside, several birds dropped from the tree in a stupor. Mr. Sindra's jowls
shook like cold tapioca.
"You idiot! Stop! Do you want the lamia to eat you? She must be charmed, not
roused to fury! Put down that poor instrument. We shall try the pipes."
Pipes or lyre, choral voice or sistrum rattle—whatever Nathaniel tried, his faltering
attempts met with bellows of outrage and despair. It was a far cry from his
drawing lessons, which proceeded peacefully and well under his tutor, Ms. Lutyens.
Willowy and sweet-tempered, she was the only one of his teachers to whom Nathaniel
could talk freely. Like Mrs. Underwood, she had little time for his "nameless"
status. In confidence, she had asked him to tell her his name, and he had done
so without a second thought.