Under the eyes of his master and his tutors, Nathaniel's education progressed
rapidly. He delighted in reporting his daily achievements to Mrs. Underwood and
basking in the warmth of her praise. In the evenings, he would gaze out of his window
toward the distant yellow glow that marked the tower of the Parliament
buildings, and dream of the day when he would go there as a magician, as one of
the ministers of the noble government.
Two days after his ninth birthday, his master appeared in the kitchen while he
was eating breakfast.
"Leave that and come with me," the magician said.
Nathaniel followed him along the hall and into the room that served as his
master's library. Mr. Underwood stood next to a broad bookcase filled with volumes
of every size and color, ranging from heavy leather-bound lexicons of great
antiquity to battered yellow paperbacks with mystic signs scrawled on the spines.
"This is your reading matter for the next three years," his master said, tapping
the top of the case. "By the time you're twelve, you must have familiarized yourself
with everything it contains. The books are written in Middle English, Latin, Czech,
and Hebrew for the most part, although you'll find some Coptic works on the
Egyptian rituals of the dead too. There's a Coptic dictionary to help you with those.
It's up to you to read through all this; I haven't time to coddle you. Mr. Purcell will
keep your languages up to speed. Understand?"
"Yes, sir. Sir?"
"What, boy?"
"When I've read through all this, sir, will I know everything I need? To be a
magician, I mean, sir. It seems such an awful lot."
His master snorted; his eyebrows ascended to the skies.
"Look behind you," he said.
Nathaniel turned. Behind the door was a bookcase that climbed from floor to
ceiling; it overflowed with hundreds of books, each one fatter and more dusty than
the last, the sort of books that, one could tell without even opening them, were
printed in minute script in double columns on every page. Nathaniel gave a small
gulp.
"Work your way through that lot," his master said dryly, "and you might be
getting somewhere. That case contains the rites and incantations you'd need to
summon significant demons; and you won't even begin to use them till you're in
your teens, so cast it out of your mind. Your case"—he tapped the wood again—
"gives you the preparatory knowledge and is more than enough for the moment.
Right, follow me."
They proceeded to a workroom that Nathaniel had never visited before. A
large number of bottles and vials clustered there on stained and dirty shelves, filled
with liquids of varying color. Some of the bottles had floating objects in them. Nathaniel
couldn't tell whether it was the thick, curved glass of the bottles that made
the objects look so distorted and strange.
His master sat on a stool at a simple wooden worktable and indicated for Nathaniel
to sit alongside him. He pushed a narrow box across the table. Nathaniel
opened it. Inside was a small pair of spectacles. A distant memory made him shudder
sharply.
"Well, take them out, boy; they won't bite you. Right. Now look at me. Look
at my eyes; what do you see?"
Unwillingly, Nathaniel looked. He found it very difficult to peer into the
fierce, fiery brown eyes of the old man, and as a result his brain froze. He saw nothing.
"Well?"
"Um, um... I'm sorry, I don't..."
"Look around my irises—see anything there?"
"Um..."
"Oh, you dolt!" His master gave a cry of frustration and pulled the skin below
one eye down, revealing its red underbelly. "Can't you see it? A lens, boy! A contact
lens! Around the middle of my eye! See it?"
Desperately, Nathaniel looked again, and this time he did see a faint circular
rim, thin as a pencil line around the iris, sealing it in.
"Yes, sir," he said eagerly. "Yes, I see it."
"About time. Right." His master sat back on the stool. "When you are twelve
years old, two important things will happen. First, you will be given a new name,
which you shall take as your own. Why?"
"To prevent demons getting power over me by discovering my birth name, sir."
"Correct. Enemy magicians are equally perilous, of course. Secondly, you will
get your first pair of lenses, which you can wear at all times. They will allow you to
see through a little of the trickery of demons. Until that time you will use these
glasses, but only when instructed to, and on no account are they to be removed
from this workroom. Understand?"
"Yes, sir. How do they help see through things, sir?"
"When demons materialize, they can adopt all manner of false shapes, not just
in this material realm, but on other planes of perception too—I shall teach you of
these planes anon, do not question me on them now. Some demons of the higher
sort can even become invisible; there is no end to the wickedness of their deceptions.
The lenses, and to a lesser extent the glasses, allow you to look on several
planes at once, giving you a chance of seeing through their illusions. Observe"
Nathaniel's master reached over to a crowded shelf behind him and selected a
large glass bottle that was sealed with cork and wax. It contained a greenish briny
liquid and a dead rat, all brownish bristles and pale flesh. Nathaniel made a face. His
master considered him.