She laughed at him. "Sketching is all very well for artists, Nathaniel, or for rich
young women with nothing else to do. You are not going to become an artist or a
rich young woman, and the purpose for your picking up your story pencil is very different.
You are to be a craftsman, a technical draftsman—you must be able to reproduce
any pattern you wish, quickly, confidently, and above all, accurately."
He looked dismally at the paper resting on the table between them. It showed
a complex design of branching leaves, flowers, and foliage, with abstract shapes fitted
snugly in between. He was re-creating the image in his sketchbook and had
been working on it for two hours without a break. He was about halfway finished.
"It just seems pointless, that's all," he said in a small voice.
"Pointless it is not," Ms. Lutyens replied. "Let me see your work. Well, it's not
bad, Nathaniel, not bad at all, but look—do you not think that this cupola is rather
bigger than the original? See here? And you've left a hole in this stem—that's rather
a bad mistake."
"It's only a small mistake. The rest's okay, isn't it?"
"That's not the issue. If you were copying out a pentacle and you left a hole in
it, what would happen? It would cost you your life. You don't want to die just yet,
do you, Nathaniel?"
"No."
"Well, then. You simply mustn't make mistakes. They'll have you, otherwise."
Ms. Lutyens sat back in her chair. "By rights, I should get you to start again with
this."
"Ms. Lutyens!"
"Mr. Underwood would expect no less." She paused, pondering. "But from
your cry of anguish I suppose it would be useless to expect you to do any better
the second time around. We will stop for today. Why don't you go out into the
garden? You look like you could do with some fresh air."
For Nathaniel, the garden of the house was a place of temporary solitude and
retreat. No lessons took place there. It had no unpleasant memories. It was long and
thin and surrounded by a high wall of red brick. Climbing roses grew against this in
the summer, and six apple trees shed white blossom over the lawn. Two rhododendron
bushes sprawled widthwise halfway down the garden—beyond them was
a sheltered area largely concealed from the many gaping windows of the house.
Here the grass grew long and wet. A wonderful horse chestnut tree in a neighboring garden
towered above the story, and a stone seat, green with lichen, rested in the shadows of the
high wall. Beside the seat was a marble statue of a man holding a fork of lightning
in his hand. He wore a Victorian-style jacket and had a gigantic pair of sideburns
that protruded from his cheeks like the pincers of a beetle. The statue was weather
worn and coated with a thin mantle of moss, but still gave an impression of great
energy and power. Nathaniel was fascinated by it and had even gone so far as to ask
Mrs. Underwood who it was, but she had only smiled.
"Ask your master," she said. "He knows everything."
But Nathaniel had not dared ask.
This restful spot, with its solitude, its stone seat, and its statue of an unknown
magician, was where Nathaniel came whenever he needed to compose himself before
a lesson with his cold, forbidding master.