Nathaniel did as he was told. The spectacles felt cold and heavy on his nose. He
peered through the filmy pebble-glass, taking a moment or two to focus. When the
bottle swam into view, he gasped. The rat was gone. In its place was a small blackand-
red creature with a spongy face, beetle's wings, and a concertina-shaped underside.
The creature's eyes were open and bore an aggrieved expression. Nathaniel
took the spectacles off and looked again. The brown rat floated in the pickling
fluid.
"Gosh," he said.
His master grunted. "A Scarlet Vexation, caught and bottled by the Medical Institute
of Lincoln's Inn. A minor imp, but a notable spreader of pestilence. It can
only create the illusion of the rat on the material plane. On the others, its true essence
is revealed."
"Is it dead, sir?" Nathaniel asked.
"Hmm? Dead? I should think so. If not, it'll certainly be angry. It's been in that
jar for at least fifty years—I inherited it from my old master."
He returned the bottle to the shelf. "You see, boy," he went on, "even the least
powerful demons are vicious, dangerous, and evasive. One cannot withdraw one's
guard for a moment. Observe this."
From behind a bunsen burner, he drew a rectangular glass box that seemed to
have no lid. Six minute creatures buzzed within it, ceaselessly butting against the
walls of their prison. From a distance they seemed like insects; as he drew closer,
Nathaniel observed that they had rather too many legs for this to be so.
"These mites," his master said, "are possibly the lowest form of demon. Scarcely
any intelligence to speak of. You do not require your spectacles to see their true
form. Yet even these are a menace unless properly controlled. Notice those orange
stings beneath their tails? They create exquisitely painful swellings on the victim's
body; far worse than bees or hornets. An admirable method of chastising someone,
be it annoying rival... or disobedient pupil."
Nathaniel watched the furious little mites butting their heads against the glass.
He nodded vigorously. "Yes, sir."
"Vicious little things." His master pushed the box away. "Yet all they need are
the proper words of command and they will obey any instruction. They thus demonstrate,
on the smallest scale, the principles of our craft. We have dangerous tools
that we must control. We shall now begin learning how to protect ourselves."
Nathaniel soon found that it would be a long time before he was allowed to
wield the tools himself. He had lessons with his master in the workroom twice a
week, and for months he did nothing except take notes. He was taught the principles
of pentacles and the art of runes. He learned the appropriate rites of purification
that magicians had to observe before summoning could take place. He was set
to work with mortar and pestle to pound out mixtures of incense that would encourage
demons or keep unwanted ones away. He cut candles into varying sizes and
arranged them in a host of different patterns. And not once did his master summon
anything.
Impatient for progress, in his spare time Nathaniel devoured the books in the
library case. He impressed Mr. Purcell with his omnivorous appetite for knowledge.
He worked with great vigor in Ms. Lutyens's drawing lessons, applying his skill to
the pentacles he now traced under the beady eye of his master. And all this time,
the spectacles gathered dust on the workroom shelf.
Ms. Lutyens was the only person to whom he confided his frustrations.
"Patience," she told him. "Patience is the prime virtue. If you hurry, you will
fail. And failure is painful. You must always relax and concentrate on the task in
hand. Now, if you're ready I want you to sketch that again, but this time with a
blindfold."
Six months into his training, Nathaniel observed a summoning for the first
time. To his deep annoyance, he took no active part. His master drew the pentacles,
including a secondary one for Nathaniel to stand in. Nathaniel was not even allowed
to light the candles and, what was worse, he was told to leave the spectacles
behind.
"How will I see anything?" he asked, rather more pettishly than was his habit
with his master; a narrow-eyed stare instantly reduced him to silence.
The summoning began as a deep disappointment. After the incantations, which
Nathaniel was pleased to find he largely understood, nothing seemed to happen. A
slight breeze blew through the workroom; otherwise all was still. The empty pentacle
stayed empty. His master stood close by, eyes shut, seemingly asleep. Nathaniel
grew very bored. His legs began to ache. Evidently this particular demon had decided
not to come. All at once, he noticed with horror that several of the candles in
one corner of the workroom had toppled over. A pile of papers was alight, and the
fire was spreading. Nathaniel gave a cry of alarm and stepped—
"Stay where you are!"
Nathaniel's heart nearly stopped in fright. He froze with one foot lifted. His
master's eyes had opened and were gazing at him with an awful anger. With a voice
of thunder, his master uttered the seven Words of Dismissal. The fire in the corner
of the room vanished, the pile of papers with them; the candles were once again
upright and burning quietly. Nathaniel's heart quailed in his breast.
"Step outside the circle, would you?" Never had he heard his master's voice so
scathing. "I told you that some remain invisible. They are masters of illusion and
know a thousand ways to distract and tempt you. One step more and you'd have
been on fire yourself. Think of that while you go hungry tonight. Get up to your
room!"
Further summonings were less distressing. Guided only by his ordinary senses,
Nathaniel observed demons in a host of beguiling shapes. Some appeared as familiar
animals—mewling cats, wide-eyed dogs, forlorn, limping hamsters that Nathaniel
ached to hold. Sweet little birds hopped and pecked at the margins of their circles.
Once, a shower of apple blossom cascaded from the air, filling the room with a
heady scent that made him drowsy.
He learned to withstand inducements of all kinds. Some invisible spirits assailed
him with foul smells that made him retch; others charmed him with perfume
that reminded him of Ms. Lutyens's or Mrs. Underwood's. Some attempted to
frighten him with hideous sounds—with squelchy rendings, whisperings, and gibbering
cries. He heard strange voices calling out beseechingly, first high-pitched,
then plummeting deeper and deeper until they rang like a funeral bell. But he
closed his mind to all these things and never came close to leaving the circle.
A year passed before Nathaniel was allowed to wear his spectacles during each
summoning. Now he could observe many of the demons as they really were.