As the sun rose, I waited impatiently for the expected summons. The boy had
said he would call me at dawn, but he was no doubt sleeping in like the layabout
adolescent he was.
In the meantime I ordered my thoughts. One thing that was crystal clear was
that the boy was the patsy of an adult magician, some shadowy influence who
sought to deflect blame for the theft onto the kid. It wasn't hard to guess this—no
child of his age would summon me for so great a task on his own. Presumably the
unknown magician wished to deal a blow to Lovelace and gain control over the
Amulet's powers. If so, he was risking everything. Judging by the scale of the hunt I
had just evaded, several powerful people were greatly concerned by its loss.
Even alone, Simon Lovelace was a formidable proposition. The fact that he was
able to employ (and restrain) both Faquarl and Jabor proved as much. I did not relish
the urchin's chances when the magician caught up with him.
Then there was the girl, that nonmagician whose friends withstood my magic
and saw through my illusions. Several centuries had gone by since I had last encountered
humans of their sort, so to find them here in London was intriguing.
Whether or not they understood the implications of their power was difficult to
say. The girl didn't even seem to know exactly what the Amulet was, only that it
was a prize worth having. She certainly wasn't allied to Lovelace or the boy.
Strange... I couldn't see where she fit into this at all.
Oh well, it wasn't going to be my problem. Sunlight hit the roof of the abbey. I
allowed myself a short, luxurious flex of my wings.
At that moment, the summons came.
A thousand fishhooks seemed to embed themselves in me. I was pulled in several
directions at once. Resisting too long risked tearing my essence, but I had no interest
in delay. I wished to hand over the Amulet and be done.
With this eager hope in mind I submitted to the summons, vanishing from the
rooftop....
...and reappearing instantaneously in the child's room. I looked around.
"All right, what's this?"
"I order you, Bartimaeus, to reveal whether you have diligently and wholly carried
out your charge—"
"Of course I have—what do you think this is, costume jewelry?" I pointed with
my gargoyle's claw at the Amulet dangling on my chest. It waved and winked in the
shuddering light of the candles. "The Amulet of Samarkand. It was Simon Lovelace's.
Now it is yours. Soon it will be Simon Lovelaces again. Take it and enjoy the
consequences. I was asking about this pentacle you've drawn here: what are these
runes? This extra line?"
The kid puffed out his chest. "Adelbrand's Pentacle." If I didn't know better, I'd
have sworn he smirked, an unseemly facial posture for one so young.
Adelbrand's Pentacle. That meant trouble. I made a big show of checking the
lines of the star and circle, looking for minute breaks or wiggles in the chalk. Then I
perused the runes and symbols themselves.
"Aha!" I roared. "You've spelled this wrong! And you know what that means,
don't you...?" I drew myself up like a cat ready to pounce.
The kid's face went an interesting mix of white and red; his lower lip wobbled;
his eyes bulged from their sockets. He looked very much like he wanted to run for
it, but he didn't, so my plan was foiled.