A small soapstone bowl sat on the floor midway between the outermost arcs
of the two circles. I removed the Amulet and with a certain amount of inner relief
tossed it casually into the bowl. The boy bent toward it. Out of the corner of my
eyes I watched him closely—if one foot, one finger, fell outside his circle, I would
be on him faster than a praying mantis.
But the kid was wise to this. He produced a stick from the pocket of his tatty
coat. Jammed into the tip was a hooked piece of wire that looked suspiciously like
a twisted paperclip. With a couple of cautious prods and jerks he caught the lip of
the bowl with the hook and drew it into his circle. Then he picked up the Amulet's
chain, wrinkling his nose as he did so.
"Euch, this is disgusting!"
"Nothing to do with me. Blame Rotherhithe Sewage Works. No, on second
thought, blame yourself. I've spent the whole night trying to evade capture on your
account. You're lucky I didn't immerse myself completely."
"You were pursued?" He sounded almost eager. Wrong emotion, kid—try fear.
"By half the demonic hordes of London." I rolled my stony eyes and clashed my
horny beak. "Make no mistake about it, boy, they are coming here, yellow-eyed and
ravening, ready to seize you. You will be helpless, defenseless against their power.
You have one chance only; release me from this circle and I will help you evade
their clutches." 
"Do you take me for a fool?"
"The amulet in your hands answers that. Well, no matter. I have carried out my
charge, my task is done. For the remainder of your short life, farewell!" My form
shimmered, began to fade. A rippling pillar of steam issued up from the floor as if
to swallow me and spirit me away. It was wishful thinking—Adelbrand's Pentacle
would see to that.
"You cannot depart! I have other work for thee." More than the renewed captivity,
it was these occasional archaisms that annoyed me so much. Thee, recreant
demon—I ask you! No one used language like that anymore, and hadn't for two
hundred years. Anyone would think he had learned his trade entirely out of some
old book.
But extraneous thees or not, he was quite right. Most ordinary pentacles bind
you to one service only. Carry it out, and you are free to go. If the magician requires
you again, he must repeat the whole draining rigmarole of summoning from the beginning.
But Adelbrand's Pentacle countermanded this: its extra lines and incantations
double locked the door and forced you to remain for further orders. It was a
complex magical formula that required adult stamina and concentration, and this
gave me ammunition for my next attack.
I allowed the steam to ebb away. "So where is he, then?"
The boy was busy turning the Amulet over and over in his pale hands. He
looked up absently. "Where is who?"
"The boss, your master, the éminence grise, the power behind the throne. The
man who has put you up to this little theft, who's told you what to say and what to
draw. The man who'll still be standing unharmed in the shadows when Lovelace's
djinn are tossing your ragged corpse around the London rooftops. He's playing some
game that you know nothing of, appealing to your ignorance and youthful vanity."
That stung him. His lips curled back a little.
"What did he say to you, I wonder?" I adopted a patronizing singsong voice: "
'Well done, young fellow, you're the best little magician I've seen in a long while.
Tell me, would you like to raise a powerful djinni? You would? Well, why don't
we do just that! We can play a prank on someone too—steal an amulet—' "
The boy laughed. Unexpected that. I was anticipating a furious outburst or
some anxiety. But no, he laughed.
He turned the Amulet over a final time, then bent and replaced it in the pot.
Also unexpected. Using the stick with the hook, he pushed the pot back through
the circle to its original position on the floor.
"What are you doing?"
"Giving it back."
"I don't want it."
"Pick it up."
I wasn't about to get into a prissy exchange of insults with a twelve-year old,
particularly one who could impose his will on me, so I reached out through my circle
and hefted the Amulet.
"Now, what? When Simon Lovelace comes I won't be hanging on to this, you
know. I'll be giving it right back to him with a smile and a wave. And pointing out
which curtain you're shivering behind."
"Wait."
The kid produced something shiny from one of the inner pockets of his voluminous
coat. Did I mention that this coat was about three sizes too big for him? It
had evidently once belonged to a very careless magician, since, although heavily
patched, it still displayed the unmistakable ravages of fire, blood, and talon. I
wished the boy similar fortune.
Now he was holding in his left hand a burnished disc—a scrying glass of highly
polished bronze. He passed his right hand over it a few times and began to gaze
into the reflective metal with passive concentration.