How was I sure the magician in question was his master? Well, unless age-old
practices were now being dropped and apprentices were being bussed off to boarding
school together (hardly likely), there was no other explanation. Magicians hold
their knowledge close to their shriveled little hearts, coveting its power the way a
miser covets gold, and they will only pass it on with caution. Since the days of the
Median Magi, students have always lived alone in their mentors' house—one master
to one pupil, conducting their lessons with secrecy and stealth. From ziggurat to
pyramid, from sacred oak to skyscraper, thousands of years pass and things don't
change.
To sum up then: it seemed that to guard his own skin, this ungrateful child was
risking bringing the wrath of a powerful magician down upon his innocent master's
head. I was very impressed. Even though he had to be in cahoots with an adult—
some enemy of his master, presumably—it was an admirably twisted plan for one
so young.
I did an eightfold tiptoe out of the door. Then I saw the master.
I had not heard of this magician, this Mr. Arthur Underwood. I assumed him
therefore to be a minor conjuror, a dabbler in fakery and mumbo-jumbo who never
dared disturb the rest of higher beings such as me. Certainly, as he passed underneath
me into the bathroom (I had evidently exited just in time), he fit the bill of
second-rater. A sure sign of this was that he had all the time-honored attributes
that other humans associate with great and powerful magic: a mane of unkempt
hair the color of tobacco ash, a long whitish beard that jutted outward like the
prow of a ship, and a pair of particularly bristly eyebrows.[2] I could imagine him
stalking through the streets of London in a black velveteen suit, hair billowing behind
him in a sorcerous sort of way. He probably flourished a gold-tipped cane,
maybe even a swanky cape. Yes, he'd look the part then, all right: very impressive.
As opposed to now, stumbling along in his pajama bottoms, scratching his unmentionables
and sporting a folded newspaper under his arm.
"Martha!" He called this just before closing the bathroom door. A small,
spherical female emerged from a bedroom. Thankfully, she was fully dressed.
"Yes, dear?"
"I thought you said that woman cleaned yesterday."
"Yes, she did, dear. Why?"
"Because there's a grubby cobweb dangling from the middle of the ceiling, with
a repellent spider skulking in it. Loathsome. She should be sacked."
"Oh, I see it. How foul. Don't worry, I'll speak to her. And I'll get the duster to
it shortly."
The great magician humphed and shut the door. The woman shook her head in
a forgiving manner and, humming a lighthearted ditty, disappeared downstairs. The
"loathsome" spider made a rude sign with two of its legs and set off along the ceiling,
trailing its cobweb behind it.
It took several minutes' scuttering before I located the entrance to the study at
the bottom of a short flight of stairs. And here I halted. The door was protected
against interlopers by a hex in the form of a five-pointed star. It was a simple device.
The star appeared to consist of flaking red paint; however, if an unwary trespasser
opened the door the trap would be triggered and the "paint" would revert to
its original state—a ricocheting bolt of fire.
Sounds good, I know, but it was pretty basic stuff actually. A curious housemaid
might be frazzled, but not Bartimaeus. I erected a Shield around me and,
touching the base of the door with a tiny claw, instantly sprang back a couple of
feet.
Thin orange streaks appeared within the red lines of the five-pointed star. For a
second the lines coursed like liquid, racing round and round the shape. Then a jet of
flame burst from the star's uppermost point, rebounded off the ceiling and speared
down toward me.
I was ready for the impact on my Shield, but it never took place.
The flame bypassed me altogether and hit the cobweb I was trailing. And the
cobweb sucked it up, drawing the fire from the star like juice through a straw. In
an instant it was over. The flame was gone. It had disappeared into the cobweb,
which remained as cool as ever.
In some surprise, I looked around. A charcoal-black star was seared into the
wood of the study door. As I watched, the hex began to redden slowly—it was reassembling
its charge for the next intruder.
I suddenly realized what had happened. It was obvious. The Amulet of Samarkand
had done what amulets are supposed to do—it had protected its wearer.
Very nicely, too. It had absorbed the hex without any trouble whatsoever. That
was fine by me. I removed my Shield and squeezed myself beneath the door and
into Underwood's study.
Beyond the door I found no further traps on any of the planes, another sign
that the magician was of a fairly low order. (I recalled the extensive network of defenses
that Simon Lovelace had rigged up and which I'd broached with such easy
panache. If the boy thought that the Amulet would be safe behind his master's "security"
he had another thing coming.) The room was tidy, if dusty, and contained
among other things a locked cupboard that I guessed housed his treasures. I entered
via the keyhole, tugging the cobweb in my wake.
Once inside I performed a small Illumination. A pitiful array of magical gimcracks
were arranged with loving care on three glass shelves. Some of them, such as
the Tinker's Purse, with its secret pocket for making coins "vanish," were frankly
not magical at all. It made my estimate of second-rater seem overly generous. I almost
felt sorry for the old duffer. For his sake I hoped Simon Lovelace never came
to call.
There was a Javanese bird totem at the back of the cupboard, its beak and
plumes gray with dust. Underwood obviously never touched it. I pulled the cobweb
between the purse and an Edwardian rabbit's foot and tucked it behind the totem. Good. No one would find it there unless they were really hunting. Finally I
removed the Charm on it restoring it to its normal amulet-y size and shape.