The magician gave no sign that he had heard, but remained engrossed in the
paper. His wife began rearranging a rather sorry display of dried flowers over the
mantelpiece. I guessed then who was responsible for the vase in the boy's room.
Dead flowers for the husband, fresh ones for the apprentice—that was intriguing.
Again Underwood unfolded, turned, smacked the paper, resumed his reading.
The boy stood silently waiting. Now that I was free of the circle and thus not under
his direct control, I had a chance to assess him more clinically. He had (of course)
removed his raggedy coat and was soberly dressed in gray trousers and jumper. His
hair had been wetted and was slicked back. A sheaf of papers with story was under his arm.
He was a wonderful picture of quiet deference.
He had no obviously defining features—no moles, no oddities, no scars. His
hair was dark and straight, his face tended toward the pinched. His skin was very
pale. To a casual observer, he was an unremarkable boy. But to my wiser and more
jaundiced gaze there were other things to note: shrewd and calculating eyes; fingers
that tapped impatiently on the papers he held; most of all a very careful face that
by subtle shifts took on whatever expression was expected of it. For the moment
he had adopted a submissive but attentive look that would flatter an old man's vanity.
Yet continually he cast his eye around the room, searching for me.
I made it easy for him. When he was looking in my direction, I gave a couple
of small scuttles on the wall, waved a few arms, wiggled my abdomen in a cheery
fashion. He saw me straight off, went paler than ever, bit his lip. Couldn't do anything
about me though, without giving his game away.
In the middle of my dance, Underwood suddenly grunted dismissively and
slapped the back of his hand against his paper. "See here, Martha," he said. "Makepeace
is filling the theaters again with his Eastern piffle. Swans of Araby... I ask you,
did you ever hear of such sentimental claptrap? And yet it's sold out until the end
of January! Quite bizarre."
"It's all booked up? Oh, Arthur, I'd rather wanted to go—"
"And I quote:'... in which a sweet-limbed missionary lass from Chiswick falls in
love with a tawny djinni...'—it's not just romantic nonsense, it's damnably dangerous
too. Spreads misinformation to the people."
"Oh, Arthur—"
"You've seen djinn, Martha. Have you seen one 'with dusky eyes that will melt
your heart'? Melt your face, maybe."
"I'm sure you're right, Arthur."
"Makepeace should know better. Disgraceful. I'd do something about it, but
he's in too deep with the Prime Minister."
"Yes, dear. Would you like more coffee, dear?"
"No. The P.M. should be helping out my Internal Affairs department rather
than socializing his time away. Four more thefts, Martha, four in the last week.
Valuable items they were, too. I tell you, we're going to the dogs." So saying, Underwood lifted his mustache with one hand and expertly passed the lip of his cup
beneath. He drank long and loudly. "Martha, this is cold. Fetch more coffee, will
you?"
With wonderful grace the wife bustled off on her errand. As she exited, the magician
tossed his paper to one side and deigned to notice his pupil at last.
The old man grunted. "So. You're here, are you?"
Despite his anxiety, the boy's voice was steady. "Yes, sir. You sent for me, sir."
"I did indeed. Now, I have been speaking to your teachers, and with the exception
of Mr. Sindra, all have satisfactory reports to make on you." He held up his
hand to silence the boy's prompt articulations of thanks. "Heaven knows, you don't
deserve it after what you did last year. However, despite certain deficiencies, to
which I have repeatedly drawn your attention, you have made some progress with
the central tenets. Thus"—a dramatic pause—"I feel that the time is right for you
to conduct your first summons."