One summer's day, when Nathaniel was ten years old, he sat with his tutor on
the stone seat in the garden, sketching the horse chestnut tree beyond the wall. The
sun beat upon the red bricks. A gray-and-white cat lolled on the top of the wall,
idly swishing its tail from side to side. A gentle breeze shifted the leaves of the tree
and carried a faint scent across from the rhododendron bushes. The moss on the
statue of the man with the lightning fork gleamed richly in the yellow sunlight. Insects
hummed.
It was the day that everything changed.
"Patience, Nathaniel."
"You've said that so many times, Ms. Lutyens."
"And I'll say it again, I have no doubt. You are too restless. It's your biggest
fault."
Nathaniel irritably cross-hatched a patch of shade.
"But it's so frustrating," he exclaimed. "He never lets me try anything! All I'm
allowed to do is set up the candles and the incense and other stuff that I could do
in my sleep standing on my head! I'm not even allowed to talk to them."
"Quite right too," Ms. Lutyens said firmly. "Remember, I just want subtleties of
shading. No hard lines."
"It's ridiculous." Nathaniel made a face. "He doesn't realize what I can do. I've
read all his books, and—"
"All of them?"
"Well, all the ones in his little bookcase, and he said they'd keep me going till I
was twelve. I'm not even eleven yet, Ms. Lutyens. I mean, I've already mastered the
Words of Direction and Control, most of them; I could give a djinni an order, if he
summoned it for me. But he won't even let me try."
"I don't know which is less attractive, Nathaniel—your boasting or your petulance.
You should stop worrying about what you don't yet have and enjoy what
you have now. This garden, for instance. I'm very pleased you thought of having our
lesson out here today."
"I always come here when I can. It helps me think."
"I'm not surprised. It's peaceful, solitary... and there are precious few parts of
London like that, so be grateful."
"He keeps me company." Nathaniel indicated the statue. "I like him, even
though I don't know who he is."
"Him?" Ms. Lutyens glanced up from her sketchbook, but went on drawing.
"Oh, that's easy. That's Gladstone."
"Who?"
"Gladstone. Surely you know. Doesn't Mr. Purcell teach you recent history?"
"We've done contemporary politics."
"Too recent. Gladstone died more than a hundred years ago. He was a great
hero of the time. There must have been thousands of statues made of him, put up
all over the country. Rightly so, from your point of view. You owe him a lot."