Ms. Lutyens and Nathaniel both stood up respectfully. "I've looked all over for
you, dear," Mrs. Underwood said, breathing hard. "I thought you'd be in the schoolroom...."
"I'm so sorry, Mrs. Underwood," Ms. Lutyens began. "It was such a nice day—"
"Oh, that doesn't matter. That's quite all right. It's just that my husband needs
Nathaniel straight away. He has guests over, and wishes to present him."
"There you are, then," Ms. Lutyens said quietly, as they hurried back up the
garden. "Mr. Underwood isn't overlooking you at all. He must be very pleased with
you to introduce you to other magicians. He's going to show you off!"
Nathaniel smiled weakly, but said nothing. The thought of meeting other magicians
made him feel quite queasy. Through all his years in the house he had never
once been allowed to meet his master's professional colleagues, who appeared there
intermittently. He was always packed off to his bedroom, or kept out of harm's
way with his tutors upstairs. This was a new and exciting development, if a rather
frightening one. He imagined a room stuffed full of tall, brooding men of power,
glowering at him over their bristling beards and swirling robes. His knees shook in
anticipation.
"They're in the reception room," Mrs. Underwood said as they entered the
kitchen. "Let's look at you...." She wet her finger and hurriedly removed a pencillead
smudge from the side of his forehead. "Very presentable. All right, in you go."
The room was full; he'd got that part right. It was warm with bodies, the smell
of tea, and the effort of polite conversation. But by the time Nathaniel had closed
the door and edged across to occupy the only space available, in the lee of an ornamental
dresser, his wonderful visions of a company of great men had already
evaporated.
They just didn't look the part.
There wasn't a cape to be seen. There were precious few beards on display, and
none half as impressive as that of his own master. Most of the men wore drab suits
with drabber ties; only a few sported daring additions, such as a gray waistcoat or a
visible breast-pocket handkerchief. All wore wonderful shiny black shoes. It felt to Nathaniel
as if he had strayed upon an undertakers' office party. None of them seemed like
Gladstone, in strength or in demeanor. Some were short, others were crabbed and
old, more than one was prone to pudginess. They talked among themselves earnestly,
sipping tea and nibbling dry biscuits, and not one of them raised his voice
above the consensus murmuring.
Nathaniel was deeply disappointed. He stuck his hands in his pockets and
breathed deeply.
His master was inching himself through the throng, shaking hands and uttering
an odd, short, barking laugh whenever a guest said something that he thought was
intended to be funny. Catching sight of Nathaniel, he beckoned him over; Nathaniel
squeezed between a tea plate and someone's protruding belly and approached.
"This is the boy," the magician said gruffly, clapping Nathaniel on the shoulder
in an awkward gesture. Three men looked down at him. In the story one was old, white-haired,
with a florid sun-dried-tomato face, covered in tiny creases. Another was a doughy,
watery-eyed individual in middle age; his skin looked cold and clammy, like a fish
on a slab. The third was much younger and more handsome, with slicked-back hair,
round glasses, and a xylophone-size array of gleaming white teeth. Nathaniel stared
back at them in silence.