There was a moment's hush. Then the young man barked a word, and Nathaniel
felt something small and compact land heavily upon his shoulders. Invisible
hands clenched into his hair and jerked it backward with vicious strength, so that
his face stared at the wonderful ceiling, and he cried out with pain. He tried to raise his arms
but found them pinioned to his sides by a hideously muscular coil that wrapped itself
around him like a giant tongue. He could see nothing except the ceiling; delicate
fingers tickled his exposed throat with horrible finesse. In panic, he cried out
for his master.
Someone came close, but it was not his master. It was the young man.
"You cocksure guttersnipe," the young man said softly. "What will you do
now? Can you get free? No. How surprising: you're helpless. You know a few
words, but you're capable of nothing. Perhaps this will teach you the dangers of insolence
when you're too weak to fight back. Now, get out of my sight."
Something sniggered in his ear and with a kick of powerful legs removed itself
from Nathaniel's shoulders. At the same moment, his arms were freed. His head
drooped forward; tears welled from his eyes. They were caused by the injury to his
hair, but Nathaniel feared that they would seem the weeping of a cowardly boy. He
wiped them away with his wonderful cuff.
The room was still. All the magicians had dropped their conversations and
were staring at him. Nathaniel looked at his master, silently appealing for support
or aid, but Arthur Underwood's eyes were bright with rage—rage that appeared to
be directed at him. Nathaniel returned the look blankly, then he turned and walked
along the silent passage that parted for him across the room, reached the door,
opened it, and Walked through.
He shut the door carefully and quietly behind him.
White-faced and expressionless, he climbed the stairs.
On the way up he met Mrs. Underwood coming down.
"How did it go, dear?" she asked him. "Did you shine? Is anything wrong?"
Nathaniel could not look at her for grief and shame. He started to go past her
without answering, but at the last moment stopped short. "It was fine," he said.
"Tell me, do you know who the magician is with the little glasses and the wide,
white teeth?"
Mrs. Underwood frowned at the story. "That would be Simon Lovelace, I expect. The Junior
Minister for Trade. He does have quite a set of gnashers, doesn't he? A rising
star, I'm told. Did you meet him?"
"Yes. I did."
You're capable of nothing.
"Are you sure you're all right? You look so pale."
"Yes, thank you, Mrs. Underwood. I'll go up, now."
"Ms. Lutyens is waiting for you in the schoolroom."
You're helpless.
"I'll go right along, Mrs. Underwood."
Nathaniel did not go to the schoolroom. With slow, steady tread, he made his
way to his master's workroom, where the dust on the dirty bottles gleamed in the
sunlight, obscuring their pickled contents.
Nathaniel walked along the pitted worktable, which was strewn with diagrams
that he had been working on the day before.
You're too weak to fight back.
He stopped and reached out for a small glass box, in which six objects buzzed
and whirred.
We'll see.
With slow, steady tread, Nathaniel crossed to a wall-cupboard and pulled at a
drawer. It was so warped that it stuck halfway, and he had to place the glass box
carefully on the work surface before wrenching it open with a couple of forceful
tugs. Inside the drawer, among a host of other tools, was a small steel hammer. Nathaniel
took it out, picked up the box again, and, leaving the drawer hanging open,
left the sunny workroom.
He stood in the cool shadows of the landing, silently rehearsing the Words of
Direction and Control. In the glass box, the six mites tore back and forth with
added zest; the box vibrated in his hands.
You're capable of nothing.
The party was breaking up. The door opened, and the first few magicians
emerged in dribs and drabs. Mr. Underwood escorted them to the front door. Polite
words were exchanged, farewells said. None of them noticed the pale-faced boy
watching from beyond the stairs.
You had to say the name after the first three commands, but before the last. It
was not too difficult, provided you didn't trip over the quicker syllables. He ran it
through his head again. Yes, he had it down fine.
More magicians departed. Nathaniel's fingers were cold. There was a thin film
of sweat between them and the box they held.
The young magician and his two companions sauntered from the reception
room. They were talking animatedly, chuckling over a remark made by the one
with clammy skin. At a leisurely pace they approached Nathaniel's master, waiting
by the door.
Nathaniel gripped the hammer firmly.
He held the glass box out in front of him. It shook from within.
The old man was clasping Mr. Underwood's hand. The young magician was
next in line, looking out into the street as if eager to be gone.
In a loud voice Nathaniel spoke the first three commands, uttered the name of
Simon Lovelace, and followed it with the final word.
Then he smashed the box.