The magicians barely had time to look up before the mites were upon them.
Three made a beeline for Simon Lovelace's face; raising his hand, he made a rapid
sign. Instantly, each mite erupted into a ball of flame and careered off at an angle to
explode against the wall. The three other mites disobeyed their command. Two
darted toward the clammy, doughy-faced magician; with a cry, he stumbled back,
tripped over the doorsill and fell out onto the garden path. The mites bobbed and
dived above him, seeking exposed flesh. His arms thrashed back and forth in front
of his face, but to no avail. Several successful jabs were made, each one accompanied
by a howl of agony. The sixth mite approached the old man at speed. He appeared
to do nothing, but when it was just inches from his face, the mite suddenly
pulled to a halt and reversed frantically, cartwheeling in midair. It spun out of control
and landed near Simon Lovelace, who trod it into the carpet.
Arthur Underwood had been watching this in horror; now he pulled himself
together. He stepped over the threshold to where his guest was writhing in the
flower bed and clapped his hands sharply. The two vengeful mites dropped to the
around as if stunned.
At this point Nathaniel thought to make a judicious retreat.
He slipped away to the schoolroom, where Ms. Lutyens was sitting by the table
reading a magazine. She smiled as he entered.
"How did you get on? Sounds like a boisterous party for this time of day. I'm
sure I heard someone's glass smashing."
Nathaniel said nothing. In his mind's eye he saw the three mites exploding
harmlessly into the wall. He began to shake—whether from fear or disappointed
rage, he did not know.
Ms. Lutyens was on her feet in a trice. "Nathaniel, come here. What's the matter?
You look ill! You're shaking!" She put her arm around him and let his head rest
gently against her side. He closed his eyes. His face was on fire; he felt cold and hot
all at the same time. She was still talking to him, but he could not answer her....
At that moment the schoolroom door blew open.
Simon Lovelace stood there, his glasses flashing in the light from the window.
He issued a command; Nathaniel was ripped bodily from Ms. Lutyens's grasp and
carried through the air. For a moment, he hung suspended midway between ceiling
and floor, time enough to catch a glimpse of the other two magicians crowding in
behind their leader, and also, relegated to the back almost out of sight, his master.
Nathaniel heard Ms. Lutyens shouting something, but then he was upended,
the blood rushed to his ears, and everything else was drowned out.
He hung with his head, arms, and legs dangling toward the carpet and his bottom
aloft. Then an invisible hand, or an invisible stick, struck him on his rump. He
yelled, wriggled, kicked in all directions. The hand descended again, harder than before.
And then again....
Long before the tireless hand ceased its work, Nathaniel stopped kicking. He
hung limply, aware only of the stinging pain and the ignominy of his punishment.
The fact that Ms. Lutyens was witness to it made it far more brutal than he could
bear. Fervently he wished he were dead. And when at last a darkness welled up and
began to carry him away, he welcomed it with all his heart.
The hands released him, but he was already unconscious before he hit the
floor.
Nathaniel was confined to his room for a month and subjected to a great number
of further punishments and deprivations. After the initial series of penalties, his
master chose not to speak to him, and contact with everyone else—with the exception
of Mrs. Underwood, who brought him his meals and dealt with his chamber
pot—ceased forthwith. Nathaniel had no lessons and was allowed no books. He
sat in his room from dawn until dusk looking out across the wonderful roofscapes of London
toward the distant Houses of Parliament.
Such solitude might have driven him mad had he not discovered a discarded
ballpoint pen under his bed. With this and a few old sheets of paper he managed to
wile away some of the time with a series of sketches of the world beyond the window.
When these became tedious, Nathaniel devoted himself instead to compiling
a large number of minutely detailed lists and notes, drawn over his sketches, which
he concealed under his mattress whenever he heard footsteps on the stair. These
notes contained the story of the beginnings of his revenge.